---
layout: post
title:  "
∞-categories of Presheaf
"
katex: True
categories: AlgTop, ∞-category
---
### Introduction

Arguably, the most important idea in category theory is the Yonenda lemma, whose significance lies in both mathematics and philosophy. The statement involves the category of presheaf of sets.

All of the above admits a generalization to the theory of ∞-category. 

In HTT, Lurie presents three seemingly "competitive" models for ∞-categories of presheaf. But it later turns out that they are equivalent, so they can work together like join/slice and alternate join/slice.

He also referenced to simplicial categories for his proofs. But here we will established the results without too many contents in the appendices. Also, we will **ignore** the size issue (But it exists. And it's serious). For detailed references, see [Rezk's note](https://faculty.math.illinois.edu/~rezk/quasicats.pdf) and [Cisinki's book](https://cisinski.app.uni-regensburg.de/CatLR.pdf) (The latter involves more model category theory to deal with. Personally speaking, I think Rezk's note gives a fairly good introduction without going to too many techinical details).

Here are the definitions given in HTT. We will only use (1). Readers can skip the other definitions.

### Definitions

Given $C$ a quasicategory, we can define the presheaf over $C$ to be

1. $\mathcal P(C)$:=Fun($C^{op}$, $\mathcal{S}$), where $\mathcal{S}$ is the ∞-category of spaces, i.e., $N^{\Delta}(Kan)$.
2. $\mathcal P'(C)$:= $N^{\Delta}(P'\_{\Delta}(C))$, where $P'\_{\Delta}(C)$ is the full subcategory of the overcategory $sSet_{/C}$, spanned by right fibrations.
3. $\mathcal P^{\'\'}(\phi):=(sSet^C)_{cf}$, where $\phi:\mathfrak{C}[S] \rightarrow C$ is an equivalence of simplicial category, $sSet^C$ is the category of *simplicial* functors from C to sSet, equipped with the induced projective model structure ($\phi$ is not used here. It is used in the (un)straightening process).

Some justifications can be made. 

(1) is the most straightforward in the context of quasicategory, simply uses the internal Hom (function complex) to replace the Hom.

(2) is relatively harder. First of all, it is well-defined because $P^{\'}\_{\Delta}(C)$ is a fibrant simplicial category, which is sent to the fibrant object in simplicial set (Joyal model structure), i.e., quasicategory. It is also clear that $P^{\'}\_{\Delta}(C)$ is a collection of quasicategories fibered in quasigroupoids with base $C$.

(3) can be viewed as simplicial nerve of the simplicial presheaves over $C^{op}$. In the special case $\phi=id$ and $C=\mathfrak{C}[S]^{op}$, this is indeed the simplicial presheaves over $\mathfrak{C}[S]$.

These models turn out to be equivalent but the proof involves theory of simplicial category apparently so I will not present it here.

An important property of $\infty$-category $\mathcal{S}$ is that it classifies the left fibrations i.e. there is a universal left fibration $p\_{univ}:\mathcal{S}\_{.} \rightarrow \mathcal{S}$, where $\mathcal{S}\_{.}$ is the $\infty$-category of pointed $\infty$-groupoids. In fact, by the old "French trick", we take this as a definition. 

Here is a detailed construction that may be skipped (See remark 3.3.2.3 in HTT for size modification and its reason. It's not shown here.): consider $U$ to be the simplicial set where $U\_n:=\cup\_{\forall X \in sSet} Hom(X,\Delta^n)$ and the action of a simplicial operator $f:[m] \rightarrow [n]$ is given by pullback (with strict constraint for pullback along identity). The pointed version $U\_{.}(n):=${$p: X \rightarrow \Delta^n \text{ which admits section s}$}. For n=0, this is simply pointed simplicial sets. The simplicial operator before is still well-defined because section is stable under pullback. Define $\mathcal{S}$ to be the subcomplex which only contains left fibrations. Similar for $S\_{.}$. There is a natural forgetful map from $S\_{.} \rightarrow S$. This is the universal left fibration mentioned before. To see that the objects of $\mathcal{S}$ are indeed $\infty$-groupoid, we apply the classifying property to any map $\Delta^{0} \rightarrow \mathcal{S}$. The pullback is clearly a Kan complex, thus a quasigroupoid.

### Yoneda Lemma
We would like to establish the Yoneda lemma. But first, what should be the Yoneda embedding $h_C: C \rightarrow Fun(C^{op}, \mathcal{S})$? By adjunction, it is equivalent to give a map $Hom_C:C^{op} \times C \rightarrow \mathcal{S}$. 

The naive mapping space of objects in C does not have functoriality, i.e. we want mapping space of higher morphisms. But by the universal property of $\mathcal{S}$, it is also plausible to give a left fibration $(s_C,t_C):S(C) \rightarrow C^{op} \times C$, such that we have the following **homotopy** cartesian square (in Joyal):
<!-- https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsNixbMiwwLCJcXG1hdGhjYWx7U31fLiJdLFsyLDEsIlxcbWF0aGNhbHtTfSJdLFsxLDAsIlMoQykiXSxbMSwxLCJDXntvcH1cXHRpbWVzIEMiXSxbMCwxLCJcXERlbHRhXnswfSJdLFswLDAsIm1hcF9DKHgseSkiXSxbMiwzLCIoc19DLHRfQykiXSxbMCwxXSxbMywxLCJcXHVuZGVybGluZXtIb219X0MiXSxbMiwxLCIiLDEseyJzdHlsZSI6eyJuYW1lIjoiY29ybmVyIn19XSxbMiwwXSxbNCwzLCIoeCx5KSJdLFs1LDRdLFs1LDJdLFs1LDMsIiIsMCx7InN0eWxlIjp7Im5hbWUiOiJjb3JuZXIifX1dXQ== -->
<iframe class="quiver-embed" src="https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsNixbMiwwLCJcXG1hdGhjYWx7U31fLiJdLFsyLDEsIlxcbWF0aGNhbHtTfSJdLFsxLDAsIlMoQykiXSxbMSwxLCJDXntvcH1cXHRpbWVzIEMiXSxbMCwxLCJcXERlbHRhXnswfSJdLFswLDAsIm1hcF9DKHgseSkiXSxbMiwzLCIoc19DLHRfQykiXSxbMCwxXSxbMywxLCJcXHVuZGVybGluZXtIb219X0MiXSxbMiwxLCIiLDEseyJzdHlsZSI6eyJuYW1lIjoiY29ybmVyIn19XSxbMiwwXSxbNCwzLCIoeCx5KSJdLFs1LDRdLFs1LDJdLFs1LDMsIiIsMCx7InN0eWxlIjp7Im5hbWUiOiJjb3JuZXIifX1dXQ==&embed" width="567" height="304" style="border-radius: 8px; border: none;display: block; margin: auto;"></iframe>

and such a square determines $Hom_C$ up to homotopy.

So, what's that map and in particular, what's the domain? Like usual, we first consider the 1-categorical scenario $\mathcal{S}:=\text{Set}$. For experts, it is immediate that this is the category of elements a.k.a. Grothendieck construction of $Hom:C^{op} \times C \rightarrow \mathcal{S}$. So, I believe there are many better posts about that. I will just state the answer: "twisted arrow category". The following should not surprised you: we are going to construct the $\infty$-version of that (actually opposite of it).
### Limits/Colimits in $\infty$-categories of presheaf
A big advantange of presheaf category is that it admits (small) limits and colimits. This is also true in the $\infty$-category analogue. In fact, this can be computed pointwise. (Under construction)