---
layout: post
title:  "
Proof of the Chern-Gauss-Bonnet Theorem
"
katex: True
categories: differential geometry
---
The main reference is Chern's "lectures on differential geometry" and the his proof on annals.

**1. Gauss-Bonnet**

***Theorem (Gauss-Bonnet):*** Suppose M is a compact oriented 2-dimensional Riemannian manifold. Then

$$\frac{1}{2 \pi} \int_{M} K d\sigma = \chi(M),$$

where $\chi(M)$ is the Euler characteristic of M.

***Sketch of the Proof:***
The main idea is to use Hopf's index theorem and Stoke's theorem. Choose a smooth vector field X with finite singular points, delete some disks $D_i$ containing one singular point each from M, then integrate $K d\sigma$. We have the form $\theta\_{12}$ s.t. $d\theta\_{12} = - K d\sigma$. So applying Stoke's theorem, we get to sum a bunch of integral of $\theta\_{12}$ around the boundary of the disks with canonical orientation inherited from M. This coincides with the sum of the indexes of singular points. Thus by the Hopf's index theorem, the result is Euler characteristics. Now just shrink the disks to get the final identity.

**2. Transgression**

Transgression is a common theme in algebraic topology and differential topology. For example, in the topological proof of Bott periodicity by Dyer, the key theorem 2.7 tells us how to compute the homology of $\Omega X$ based on homology of X, which in turns largely simplifies our computation (dual of Borel's transgression theorem). 

So, what is transgression? Suppose we have the following diagram in the category of spaces
<!-- https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsMyxbMCwwLCJaIl0sWzEsMCwiWCJdLFswLDEsIlkiXSxbMCwyLCJmIiwyXSxbMCwxLCJnIl1d -->
<iframe class="quiver-embed" src="https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsMyxbMCwwLCJaIl0sWzEsMCwiWCJdLFswLDEsIlkiXSxbMCwyLCJmIiwyXSxbMCwxLCJnIl1d&embed" width="304" height="304" style="border-radius: 8px; border: none; display: block; margin: auto;"></iframe>

And given any generalized cohomology theory $E^*$, we want to transfer E-cohomology classes from X to Y.

More specifically, given a fiber sequence $F \hookrightarrow E \twoheadrightarrow B$, assume B is well-based, we set $f: E/F \rightarrow B$ to be induced by the usual projection map and $g: E/F \rightarrow \Sigma F$ to be the map in the dual of Puppe sequence, then we have the following diagram

<!-- https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsMyxbMCwwLCJFL0YiXSxbMSwwLCJcXFNpZ21hIEYiXSxbMCwxLCJCIl0sWzAsMiwiZiIsMl0sWzAsMSwiZyJdXQ== -->
<iframe class="quiver-embed" src="https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsMyxbMCwwLCJFL0YiXSxbMSwwLCJcXFNpZ21hIEYiXSxbMCwxLCJCIl0sWzAsMiwiZiIsMl0sWzAsMSwiZyJdXQ==&embed" width="305" height="304" style="border-radius: 8px; border: none; display: block; margin: auto;"></iframe>

This gives us the usual transgression in fiber sequence which will be used in the final proof.
